Extra Credit Summary

This course project has allowed me to have a hands-on 
experience in designing and implementing a protocol. Although I do not have 
much experience with protocol implementation through socket programming,
I found the demo files available in Blackboard Learn helpful when moving
forward with my project idea of implementing a file transfer protocol over
QUIC. As I progressed through the project, I quickly learned that there were areas 
for improvement in my original proposed design, which led to many adjustments and
refinements needed for the implementation to work. Despite these challenges,
I understand that this project serves as a great example of how software
engineering is a feedback-driven process, where theoretical design might not
reflect the actual outcome during implementation.

In reviewing my original design compared to my current implementation of my
file transfer protocol over QUIC, there are some deviations between them.
For instance, one of the more significant changes in implementation involved
adding extra functions to the pdu.py file to handle JSON encoding of files.
During my testing, I found out that my protocol kept failing whenever I tried
to transfer a larger text file that would need to be divided into chunks.
Specifically, a JSON error would occur stating that the data received on the server
side was incomplete, given that the file content is split into chunks. To 
resolve this issue, I decided to conduct some research on the problem and found an
additional Python library to help me construct a solution. Given that the error would
occur when the program tries to use JSON to serialize/deserialize incomplete data that is
not properly terminated, I created two functions in pdu.py that form a "frame"
around a datagram with a pre-determined prefix length to ensure that data
no longer appears as incomplete during the file transfer process. Despite being
an unexpected issue, the solution builds on top of the serialization/deserialization process and 
makes the process safer when transferring files between the client and the server. Additionally, another
change made to my implementation that was different from the original design is the inclusion of
sequence numbers for the file chunks sent from the client to the server. While I did consider implementing
a checksum to verify the file transfer, I did not consider additional fields like a sequence number
that can help track the order of the file chunks, ensuring that they arrive in order. This field was
added to the Datagram class in the pdu.py file, which will help track the order of the file chunks in case
they arrive out of order due to delays during the transfer process.

Even though I had to deviate from my original design, it is important to 
realize that every design will never become ideal, where we can expect an exact
replica for implementation. During the coding and testing phase, it is important
to understand that things may change from design to implementation, whether tools may
not exist to accomplish such a task, or unexpected behaviors occur that were previously overlooked.
By documenting these insights and changes, I gained valuable experience in the feedback-driven process
involved in software engineering, where my proposed design should be used as an outline that can evolve
into something more robust, reliable, and realistic. 
